# Robotskirt

Robotskirt is a simple node binding for the [sundown](https://github.com/tanoku/sundown)
markdown parser. It was inspired by the Redcarpet gem
[released by github](https://github.com/blog/832-rolling-out-the-redcarpet).  
Eventually Robotskirt should mirror the feature set of redcarpet,
currently it doesn't support custom renderers.

## Performance
Benchmarked against other popular node markdown libraries by running
the entire official markdown test suit 1000 times.

```bash
$ node index.js --bench
robotskirt (reuse renderer) completed in 1794ms.
robotskirt (new renderer) completed in 1848ms.
marked completed in 5517ms.
discount completed in 5866ms.
showdown (reuse converter) completed in 13789ms.
showdown (new converter) completed in 17161ms.
```

## Install

The best way to install robotskirt is by using [npm](https://github.com/isaacs/npm).
If you want to install it globally, remember to include the -g flag.

```bash
npm install robotskirt
```

If you would like to compile it, you should use node's WAF wapper.
Read more about how node C/C++ addons work in the [node docs](http://nodejs.org/docs/v0.4.7/api/addons.html).

```bash
node-waf configure build
````

## Usage

First of all, you need to construct a `new HtmlRenderer()`.  
Then, call the `markdown` function passing as arguments your renderer,  
the markdown code to parse, and a callback to handle the result:

```javascript
var rs = require('robotskirt');
  , sys = require('sys');

var renderer = new rs.HtmlRenderer();
rs.markdown(renderer, '# Hello World', function (html) {
  sys.puts(html);
});
// '<h1>Hello World</h1>\n'
```

For example, to read and parse a Markdown file:

```javascript
var rs = require('robotskirt')
  , fs = require('fs')
  , sys = require('sys');

var renderer = new rs.HtmlRenderer();
fs.readFile('README.mkd', function (err, data) {
  rs.markdown(renderer, data, function (html) {
    sys.puts(html);
  });
});
```

**Note:** keep in mind that the result is passed as a `Buffer` rather than a `String`,
so you may convert it to text using `toString()`. See the last example.

### Markdown extension flags

You can pass some flags to Sundown by passing them as an (optional) last argument:

```javascript
var flags = rs.EXT_FENCED_CODE & rs.EXT_AUTOLINK;
rs.markdown(renderer, 'Wow, this becomes http://autolink.ed !', function (html) {
  sys.puts(html);
}, flags);
```

### Being synchronous...

If you would like to parse your markdown synchronously you can use the `markdownSync` function:

```javascript
var html = rs.markdownSync(new rs.HtmlRenderer(), "*sync!*");
```

## Contributors

* [Phinze](https://github.com/phinze)
* [Tim Branyen](https://github.com/tbranyen)
* [Ryan Graham](https://github.com/rmg)
* [Xavier Mendez](https://github.com/jmendeth)

## License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
